# Week 5: 3D printing

## Background

This week, I used the protein modeling software PyMol to alter protein structure
design and obtain the file that I could feed into the 3D printer to print out a
model of Pgm1, an ATP-grasp enzyme that has similar functions to one of the
proteins I currently investigate.

I wanted to work on 3Dp printing proteins/figure out a workflow to do so because
it is clearly something that should not merely be laser cut. The grooves and
edges of proteins are highly specific, which would benefit from the protein.

For reference, here is what the final structure looks like:

![pgm1](../../public/05_3d_printing/protein_spinning_pgm1.gif)

After my initial print and figuring out specifics of printing out proteins (for
instance, to use surface view rather than cartoon view), I also used Fusion360
to take it to the next step, designing protein structure jewwelry.

## Using Pymol

Pymol is a protein modeling software that I used to make the different views of
the protein.

Pymol operates based off of python (hence the "Py"). With key commands, I can
change the visualization of the protein. First, I retrieved the protein I
wanted. To do this, I typed in ("fetch 3wvq"). 3wvq corresponds to Pgm1; I was
able to know what the protein structure code was by referencing the paper "A
peptide ligase and the ribosome cooperate to synthesize the peptide
pheganomycin."

After fetching, I then hid the nonbonding aspects of the protein structure by
typing in "hide nonbond" into the command line. That way these components (free
circles that depict water) wouldn't show up in my final product.

I created two views:

1. Cartoon view (left). Thhis shows the secondary structure (helices, beta
   sheets, etc).
2. Surface view (right). This shows the surface of the protein/the space that
   the protein occupies.

I clicked Show --> as --> cartoon for the cartoon version and Show --> as -->
surface for the surface view.

![different views](../../public/05_3d_printing/protein_different_views.png)

Lastly, I saved these two files as STL files.

## Using Prusa Slicer Software and Printing

I first used the cartoon version. I uploaded the STL file onto the Prusa Slicer
(which was configured to the specific printers we had). Then, I scaled the
protein down to 25%. Since there was some overhang, I decided to use the
"support on build plate only" feature before pressing "slice now" to generate
the Gcode.

![pgm1](../../public/05_3d_printing/cartoon.png)

the problem with the cartoon print is, if you look closely, there's a lot of
structural support needed, which would be harder to remove, especially since
some of the support seems to be sticking into the protein due to the gaps
present in the cartoon view due to the gaps between secondary structures.

Hence, I decided to test the surface view instead since there's less gaps within
the protein structure itself and it focus on the exterior surface; hence, more
of the protein is connected.

Again, I scaled down the file to 25%. I made sure to rotate it to maximize the
surface touching the bottom. Afterwards, I added supports on bottom plate. This
looked a lot better (in the image below) than the cartoon view.

![pgm1](../../public/05_3d_printing/surface.png)

I then had to uplod the Gcode onto the SD card. To do so, I downloaded it on my
USB, and then used the computer for the vinyl cutter to transfer the file from
my USB to the SD card since the computer for the vinyl cutter had a SD card
slot.

Afterwards, I inserted the SD card into the 3d printer. Estimated time was 1h 40
minutes

Here is a gif of it printing:

![pgm1](../../public/05_3d_printing/3dprint_pgm1.gif)

## Post-processing

![pgm1](../../public/05_3d_printing/Processing.png)

This pictorial I made basically sums it up. One other note is that to remove the
model from the 3d printer, I used my fingers to yank it up when cool. This left
a blue ring on the plate, which was easy to remove and through into the waste
bin.

## Designing (with fusion) protein jewelry

After this successful print of my protein and with the knowledge of what to do
with it (i.e. it's easier to print a surface view than a cartoon view), then I
used Fusion 360 to make protein jewelry.

To note, after obtaining the proper STL file from PyMol, I imported it into
Fusion 360. For some reason, I wasn't able to import the cartoon view, but that
doesn't really matter since I wanted to use the surface view anyways.

I then learned how to use the "pipe tool." First, I drew a path that connected
to my protein by using the sketch tool. Then, after pressing "finish sketch," I
got to the main page and I then rotated the structure around my laptop to make
sure the "pipe" was connected to my protein.

This is a helpful tutorial on how to use the pipe tool on fusion:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n66_V8TveiM

![pgm1](../../public/05_3d_printing/earring.png)

This is something I could print out in the future.

## Final project progress

Moreover, this week, I also started thinking more about my final project; I
emailed some toilet scientists about project ideas, as well as am connecting
with a former PS70 alum who worked on something toilet related.

Some ideas include improving upon the sensors on hands-free flush toilet;
however, I thought this was a already "solved" problem so wasn't super excited
about it.

Nishi and I have a meeting scheduled for monday, which I am excited to attend.

Moreover, part of why I worked on a protein this week was because a backup idea
is to show a mechanism within proteins, for isntance amide bond hydrolysis.

## Scanning

I tried using a phone app called "ScandyPro." I wanted to use a phone app
because I am excited to scan objects conveniently, including ones that I see in
everyday life. I found ScandyPro by doing a few google searches.

I scanned my face! To do that, I used the front camera. As you can see with the
first image, like it looked really creepy and there were a couple of holes. I
tried scanning it a couple of times, but that one still looked the best. I then
uploaded it onto Prusa Slicer. I scaled it up (200%) and you can see that you
can see the depth of my face and mask etc (although it still looks creepy haha)

![face_scan](../../public/05_3d_printing/face_scan.png)

![face_scan_1](../../public/05_3d_printing/face_scan_1.jpg)

## Reflections

It was super cool to work with proteins. I have never touched or felt a 3d
printed version of a protein--I've always just seen computational models, so
this was super duper cool. Proteins, with all its intricacy, could not be
properly represented in a 2d structure. Hence, it's amazing that it could be 3D
printed out. I also like the idea of making it into wearable jewelry, which
could be made using the pipe tool!
