# Week 12: Wildcard week

This week we got to choose what we wanted to do! I decided to do two projects:
one was the vacuum forming project. The other was composites.

## Vacuum forming

This was what the machine looked like.

![vacuum forming machine](../../public/12_vacuum_forming/vacuum-forming-machine.png)

Basically, I cut a piece of this clear plastic and clamped it between the metal
square (the metal square displayed at the top of the machine in the picture
above). Then, I used the red handle to ensure the metal square attached to the
plastic is near the top of the machine. Then, I turned on the heat. The heat
slowly melts the plastic. While the heat is warming the plastic, I placed the
laser-cutting tool (the below picture is what it looks like) onto a piece of
wood. Placing it ontop of the wood before putting it on top of the metal balls
makes it easier to peel later on.

![laser cutting tool](../../public/12_vacuum_forming/laser_cutting_tool.jpg)

Once the plastic becomes translucent, I lower the metal square-plastic combo
down to go over the laser-cutting tool. I then press the vacuum button and watch
as the plastic molds over the laser cutting tool. I then take thhe plastic
formed around the laser cutting tool out and pop out the laser cutting tool.
Here is what it looks like!

![laser cutting tool vacuum](../../public/12_vacuum_forming/laser-cutting-tool-vacuumed.jpg)

## Bonus: composites

I also worked on composites! Essentially, in composites, you are able to combine
multiple materials to make a composite piece that is tensile and strong.

I essentially tore pieces of cloth and wove it into a square. I then put it on
top of this plastic-wrap covered. pink pre-formed extrusion. By putting it on
top, I am aiming to make a bowl. I then coated these pieces of cloth with resin.
I then used resin to attach a burlap heart. I then layered it with plastic wrap
with holes in it (I created holes by using this device that looked like a spiky
torture device) and then these fluff material. Afterwards, I shoved it all into
a vacuum seal bag.

![composite-1](../../public/12_vacuum_forming/composite-1.jpg)
![composite-2](../../public/12_vacuum_forming/composite-2.jpg)

I then used the vacuum seal device to seal the thing and then I used the vacuum
setting to vacuum all air out. You could see the stack of material become more
compact. I then let it rest until it was ready. It turned out great!! The
plastic was a bit hard to peel off though!

![final-heart-burlap](../../public/12_vacuum_forming/final-heart-burlap.jpg)
